Introducing generative adversarial networks

- Starting with autoencoders: Autoencoders are composed of two networks concatenated together: an encoder network and a decoder network. depicts an autoencoder without hidden layers within the encoder and decoder, we can, of course, add multiple hidden layers with nonlinearities (as in a multilayer NN) to construct a deep autoencoder that can learn more effective data compression and reconstruction functions. Also, note that the autoencoder mentioned in this section uses fully connected layers. When we work with images, however, we can replace the fully connected layers with convolutional layers. However, the major difference between the two is that we do not know the distribution of z in the autoencoder, while in a generative model, the distribution of z is fully characterizable. It is possible to generalize an autoencoder into a generative model, though. One approach is the variational autoencoder (VAE).

Besides VAEs, there are other types of generative models, for example, autoregressive models and normalizing flow models. However, in this chapter, we are only going to focus on GAN models, which are among the most recent and most popular types of generative models in deep learning.

- Generative models for synthesizing new data: The overall objective of a GAN is to synthesize new data that has the same distribution as its training dataset. Therefore, GANs, in their original form, are considered to be in the unsupervised learning category of machine learning tasks, since no labeled data is required. It is worth noting, however, that extensions made to the original GAN can lie in both the semi-supervised and supervised domains.In computer vision, GANs are used for image-to-image translation (learning how to map an input image to an output image), image super-resolution (making a high-resolution image from a low-resolution version), image inpainting (learning how to reconstruct the missing parts of an image), and many more applications. For instance, recent advances in GAN research have led to models that are able to generate new, high-resolution face images. 
Generating new samples with GANs
(Note: To understand what GANs do in a nutshell, let’s first assume we have a network that receives a random vector, z, sampled from a known distribution, and generates an output image, x. We will call this network generator (G) and use the notation  to refer to the generated output. Assume our goal is to generate some images, for example, face images, images of buildings, images of animals, or even handwritten digits such as MNIST.As always, we will initialize this network with random weights. Therefore, the first output images, before these weights are adjusted, will look like white noise. Now, imagine there is a function that can assess the quality of images)

Understanding the loss functions for the generator and discriminator networks in a GAN model
